---
key: 20150320
title: Nuts & Bolts
date: March 20, 2015
tags: tech
preview: Believe it or not, it has been half an year since my last post. If you've read that one, you would know that I like to redesign things, *a lot*. True enough, my site went through a huge face-lift between this post and the last one. I incorporated some pretty nifty technologies, so I thought I'd take the time to talk about them.
---

Nuts & Bolts
===
MARCH 20, 2015
---

Believe it or not, it has been half an year since my last post. If you've read that one, you would know that I like to redesign things, *a lot*. True enough, my site went through a huge face-lift between this post and the last one. In addition to the redesign, I incorporated some pretty nifty technologies, so I thought I'd take the time to talk about them.

One problem I had to solve early on was to decide whether I should go with a static content generator or whip up something on my own. I've heard great things about Jekyll and how well it works with hosting on Github, but the developer in me wanted to take on a new challenge. Therefore, I did some research and ultimately ended up clobbering something together on my own. My reasons were simple: 1) I didn't need to learn yet another full-featured system. 2) I wanted to keep everything fairly minimal. 3) I was hell-bent on making it a single page application. Those choices led me to [Gulp](http://gulpjs.com/).

Gulp is a streaming build system with a large plugins ecosystem. Say you want to concatenate all your js files into a single file and minify it? Gulp can do that. You want to compile all your less files into a single css file? Gulp can do that. You want to compile your markdown files into HTML strings wrapped up into a json object? Yep, gulp can do that ([seriously???](https://github.com/SparkartGroupInc/gulp-markdown-to-json)). Best of all, it's easy to read and easy to write. Perfect.

With Gulp doing the heavy-lifting in the background, I then needed some help for the actual single page application. Long gone are the days of frontend developers using nothing but jQuery. Now, it's all about frameworks and other libraries that make managing and reasoning about a complex frontend web application easier. Personally, I've been heavily involved in designing and implementing web applications using Backbone at Expedia. Once the applications got huge, however, things got rough (especially my Backbone Views). My code ended up gnarlier and gnarlier and eventually, I wanted to see what was outside the fence. My journey soon led me to Facebook's [React](http://facebook.github.io/react/) library.

React was designed to modularize your frontend components and better manage the state associated with each piece of the puzzle. There were a couple of design decisions with React (I'm looking at you, JSX) that initially left me scratching my head, but after using it for a small project and then my website, I can truly say that I love it. Granted, my website doesn't exactly qualify as a *complex* application, but I truly believe that React will become my frontend library of choice. I'm also quite excited for the pending release of react-native, but that's another story for later.

With the core of the application and the build pipeline done, the only thing left was the sprinkles on top. I like clean, minimalistic websites, but what I **really** like are clean websites with subtle, yet extraordinary finishes. Often, these extraordinary finishes involve animation. To live up to the name of website, I used the GSAP animation library to create the [bloom](http://kzmeyao.github.io/bloom/) of jellyfish you will see if you were to click that button on the homepage. Additionally, I went a step beyond and used GSAP's [particles](http://codepen.io/GreenSock/pen/zrmiG) code for the bubbles effect to create a more suitable environment for the bloom. After all, why would jellyfishes be swimming in a forest?

In conclusion, on a scale from *not proud* to *very proud*, I'd say that I'm *quite proud* of this website. Of course, there are still a lot of features I would like to put on the site, but so far, it has been a great learning experience and I hope you enjoy it. If you want to check out the innards, everything is available on [Github](https://github.com/kzmeyao/thejellytank) for your viewing pleasure. Be sure to give it a twirl on mobile web as well!

&mdash;<br />

<small>Follow me [@kzmeyao](https://twitter.com/kzmeyao) to see more frontend resources.</small>